Add release Go/No-Go vote issue template (for async decision) (#485)
opensearch-project/.github: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/RELEASE_GO_NOGO_TEMPLATE.md

**Time:** 8:00 AM PST – 8:00 PM PST

## How to Vote

- **Go:** React with 👍 on the **Go** comment below
- **No-Go:** React with 👎 on the **No-Go** comment below **and** leave a comment with your reasoning so we can follow through

## Mandatory Votes

| Role | GitHub Handle | Vote |
|------|--------------|------|
| Release Manager | @ | |
| OS Core Maintainer (1+) | @ | |
| Documentation Maintainer | @ | |
| Website Maintainer | @ | |
| Release Blog Owner | @ | |

## Voting Rules

- A No-Go vote from any mandatory voter or maintainer of any `opensearch-project` repo blocks the release. No-Go votes must include an explicit comment with reasoning.
- A No-Go vote from any community member or OpenSearch user will be reviewed, with the final decision resting on the maintainer of the respective repo related to the concern.

## Other Maintainers & Contributors

All maintainers and community members are encouraged to vote using 👍 (Go) or 👎 (No-Go) reactions on the respective comments below.

## Release Checklist

- [ ] All release-blocking issues resolved
- [ ] Documentation ready
- [ ] Release blog drafted
- [ ] Website updates prepared
- [ ] CI/CD pipelines green

## Additional Context

> _Add any relevant links, notes, or context for this release._

Reviewer: A GitHub issue is the right place for capturing votes and any concerns related to a -1 vote.

However, they don't work well for lengthy discussions and questions. Should we create a section for a link to a slack thread in the releases channel? There's a risk of bifurcating the discussion, but slack lends itself better to questions and ephemeral discussion. What do you think?

Author: That's a fair point. The issue stays the source of truth for votes and No-Go reasoning, while Slack handles the back-and-forth discussion. To avoid bifurcation, the template can make it clear:

* Votes and No-Go reasoning go on the issue (as a record)
* Discussion and questions go in the Slack thread (linked in issue)
* Any No-Go concern raised in Slack must be formalized as a comment by Release Manager on the issue to count

Reviewer 2: I do agree that the GitHub issue is a great way forward for this but share the concerns for keeping records of the discussion. Another option I want to throw out there is the Forum - these conversations are a LOT easier to find than Slack threads - and are a lot more legible. Slack is a quick conversation place, but if we want them long-term, consider the forum. I could even create a specific place for these if we wanted.

Reviewer: > but if we want them long-term

@krisfreedain The slack channel would just be for ephemeral discussion about the immediate release. It would be the responsibility of the release manager to ensure that anything that wasn't ephemeral discussion got captured in the GitHub issue.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense. Good to ensure that is a responsibility for the release manager. 👍

---
name: 🚀 Release Go/No-Go Vote
about: Async Go/No-Go decision for OpenSearch release
title: '[RELEASE] Go/No-Go Vote - OpenSearch <VERSION>'
labels: 'release'
assignees: ''
---

## Voting Window

**Date:** <DATE>
**Time:** 8:00 AM PST – 8:00 PM PST

## How to Vote

- **Go:** React with 👍 on the **Go** comment below

> - **No-Go:** React with 👎 on the **No-Go** comment below **and** leave a comment with your reasoning so we can follow through

Reviewer: Comments are probably better than reactions for this. Comments provide a audit trail that I'm not sure we'd get with reactions. If the concern raised in a -1 comment is addressed, that comment can be marked as outdated and the commenter can add a subsequent +1 comment. Reactions can be changed with little or visibility into when or why the change happened.

Author: One concern with using comments for everything though is with many voters, the Go comments could drown out the No-Go discussions that actually need attention.

How about a hybrid approach:
- **Go:** 👍 reaction on the Go comment (low noise, easy to count)
- **No-Go:** Comment with reasoning (provides the audit trail you're describing. Also attributable and can be marked outdated and followed up with a +1 comment once resolved)
- **Mandatory voters** (Release Manager, Core Maintainer, Docs, Website, Blog): Always leave a comment +1 Go or -1 No-Go with reasoning.

The audit trail matters most for No-Go votes since those are the ones that need tracking and resolution. Mandatory voters always comment to ensure accountability for the votes that gate the release. Thoughts?

Reviewer: Actually the original text is probably okay. The no-go comments are sufficient as the audit trail. As soon as the first mandatory voter leaves a +1 comment then others will pile on without reading :)

## Mandatory Votes

| Role | GitHub Handle | Vote |
|------|--------------|------|
| Release Manager | @ | |
| OS Core Maintainer (1+) | @ | |
| Documentation Maintainer | @ | |
| Website Maintainer | @ | |
| Release Blog Owner | @ | |

## Voting Rules

- A No-Go vote from any mandatory voter or maintainer of any `opensearch-project` repo blocks the release. No-Go votes must include an explicit comment with reasoning.
- A No-Go vote from any community member or OpenSearch user will be reviewed, with the final decision resting on the maintainer of the respective repo related to the concern.

## Discussion

For questions and discussion, use the Slack thread in #releases: <SLACK_THREAD_LINK>

> The Release Manager is responsible for surfacing any No-Go concerns raised in Slack as comments on this issue to ensure they are formally captured.

## Other Maintainers & Contributors

All maintainers and community members are encouraged to vote using 👍 (Go) or 👎 (No-Go) reactions on the respective comments below.

## Release Checklist

> - [ ] All release-blocking issues resolved

Reviewer 3: If possible, would be good to include links here to release related issues (to `opensearch-build` repo, fe https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build/issues/5966), that would help a lot to understand the status of the release (beyond the checklist), thanks!

Author: agreed, voters need easy access to the release status to make an informed decision. Adding a "Release References" section to the template with links to the ``opensearch-build`` release issue, release notes draft, and build status.

---
name: 🚀 Release Go/No-Go Vote

> about: Async Go/No-Go decision for OpenSearch release

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
about: Async Go/No-Go decision for OpenSearch / OpenSearch-Dashboards release
```

Author: This is for the OpenSearch product release and not core vs dashboard

> title: '[RELEASE] Go/No-Go Vote - OpenSearch <VERSION>'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: '[RELEASE] Go/No-Go Vote - OpenSearch / OpenSearch-Dashboards <VERSION>'
```

> labels: 'release'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
labels: ['release', 'vote']
```

Author: We dont have `vote` label today. Also, we can iterate on it as we learn from the releases.

assignees: ''
---

## Voting Window

> **Date:** <DATE>
> **Time:** 8:00 AM PST – 8:00 PM PST

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Date:** <DATE> by 6PM PST
```

Author: I will like to keep an extended 12 hour window atleast to overlap with all the regions.

## Release References

- **Release Issue:** [opensearch-project/opensearch-build#XXXX](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-build/issues/XXXX)
- **Release Notes Draft:** <LINK>
- **Build Status:** <LINK>

## How to Vote

> - **Go:** React with 👍 on the **Go** comment below
> - **No-Go:** React with 👎 on the **No-Go** comment below **and** leave a comment with your reasoning so we can follow through

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Write / Comment `go` or `nogo` in the issue.
```

## Mandatory Votes

| Role | GitHub Handle | Vote |
|------|--------------|------|
| Release Manager | @ | |

> | OS Core Maintainer (1+) | @ | |
> | Documentation Maintainer | @ | |
> | Website Maintainer | @ | |
> | Release Blog Owner | @ | |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| OS Core Maintainer (1+) | https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS | |
| OSD Core Maintainer (1+) | https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS | |
| Documentation Maintainer | @ | |
| Website Maintainer | @ | |
| Release Blog Owner | @ | |
```

Reviewer 4: Add OSD core owners here as well.

Author: OSD and all other plugins will have equal say in the vote (Go/No-Go). Only core maintainer needs to be mandatory as it is the dependency for all .

## Voting Rules

- A No-Go vote from any mandatory voter or maintainer of any `opensearch-project` repo blocks the release. No-Go votes must include an explicit comment with reasoning.
- A No-Go vote from any community member or OpenSearch user will be reviewed, with the final decision resting on the maintainer of the respective repo related to the concern.

## Discussion

For questions and discussion, use the Slack thread in #releases: <SLACK_THREAD_LINK>

> The Release Manager is responsible for surfacing any No-Go concerns raised in Slack as comments on this issue to ensure they are formally captured.

## Other Maintainers & Contributors

> All maintainers and community members are encouraged to vote using 👍 (Go) or 👎 (No-Go) reactions on the respective comments below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All maintainers and community members are encouraged to vote in the issue.
```

Author: This was discussed previously above: https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/485#discussion_r3024466281
We would focus on mandatory voting and No-Go as comments for audit trail.

## Release Checklist

> - [ ] All release-blocking issues resolved
> - [ ] Documentation ready
> - [ ] Release blog drafted
> - [ ] Website updates prepared
> - [ ] CI/CD pipelines green

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Latest RC is green on build artifact
* IntegTest/CypressTest is green
* No CVE of medium and high for over 60 days
* No performance regression
* Documentation ready
* Release blog drafted
```

Reviewer 4: Easier to insert sub-bulletin list of what is not ready

Reviewer 4: Remove website part because that is a few clicks on WP.
Remove CI/CD pipeline becuse that is part of release blocking issues.
Add Build status
Add IntegTest
Add CVE verification
Add Performance

Author: We can iterate on it as we learn from the releases. On website, its readiness is the key, which should have a checklist.
